README.md, before:

# R Workshops

This repository is a clearing house for resources for individual R workshops from [Research Computing Services](http://www.it.northwestern.edu/research/). 

# Workshops

## Current Workshops

[R Fundamentals Series](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-intro-series): the most recently taught materials

[`ggplot2`](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-ggplot2-april2020)

[Tidyverse](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-tidyverse)

[Databases](https://github.com/nuitrcs/databases_workshop/tree/master/r): Information on how to connect to databases from R is part of the databases workshop materials, which also covers the basics of SQL.  The example code there may be a useful reference, but you'll need a database connection to run it.  See that repository for more details.  

[R Shiny](https://github.com/nuitrcs/rshiny) 

[R Markdown](https://github.com/nuitrcs/rmarkdown_workshop): this one is a little older than the others, but the material should still be relevant

[Webscraping with rvest](https://github.com/turnerdan/rvest_tutorial)

[Statistical Models](https://github.com/aarcher07/stats_models)

## Previous Introductory Workshops

[Intro to R](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-intro-summer2019) (in-person workshop)

[Intro to R Virtual Bootcamp](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-online-2020)



# Software

For workshops, it's best to [install R and RStudio](https://sites.northwestern.edu/researchcomputing/resources/r-and-rstudio/) on your own laptop (both are free).  If you can't install these programs or run into issues installing packages, [RStudio Cloud ](https://sites.northwestern.edu/researchcomputing/resources/r-and-rstudio/#option-2-rstudio-cloud)is a good option.


# Handouts

[RStudio Cheat Sheets](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/cheatsheets/) are short pdfs that summarize key R functions on specific topics. Many people print them out for reference while working in R.  The `ggplot` cheat sheet, in particular, in indispensable.  

[R Reference Card](https://cran.r-project.org/doc/contrib/Baggott-refcard-v2.pdf): lists many commonly used functions


# Learning More

**See our guide to free, [online resources for learning R](https://sites.northwestern.edu/researchcomputing/2020/03/20/online-learning-resources-r/) on the Research Computing Services blog for suggestions of resources to get started or get better with R.**

Resources for specific topics and R are below.

## Git and R

[Happy Git with R](http://happygitwithr.com/): another resource from UBC Stat 545 and Jenny Bryan's team

[Github Quickstart for Scientists](https://rawgit.com/nazrug/Quickstart/master/GithubQuickstart.html): aims just at teaching the workflow that many scientists use

## R for Users of Other Statistical Programs

If you're coming to R from Stata, SPSS, SAS, Matlab, or Python, the following resources might be useful to you. Some of them may be a little outdated, but each contains some tables of equivalent commands across programs that might help you get familiar with R more quickly.

[R/Stata Comparison](http://www.princeton.edu/~otorres/RStata.pdf) from Princeton's Data & Statistical Services

[R for SAS and SPSS Users](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B4mP5kf41BrmYkxkdmdRdWFibDA/view) is an early, condensed version of a book by the same name, from Bob Muenchen of <a href="https://www.r4stats.com">r4stats.com</a>

[The Tidynomicon: R for Python Programmers](https://gvwilson.github.io/tidynomicon/) by Greg Wilson; may be helpful for those coming to R from other C-derived programming languages as well.

[Matlab/R Reference](http://www.math.umaine.edu/~hiebeler/comp/matlabR.pdf): from David Hiebeler of the University of Maine.

[Matlab/NumPy (Python)/R Commands Chart](http://mathesaurus.sourceforge.net/matlab-python-xref.pdf): from Vidar Bronken Gundersen; this one is about 10 years old, but it mostly covers basic commands, which haven't changed

[haven Package](http://haven.tidyverse.org/): for importing Stata, SAS, and SPSS data into R.


## Statistics and Machine Learning

[UCLA's Statistics Consulting Group](http://www.ats.ucla.edu/stat/dae/) has a great set of tutorials showing how to conduct many types of ANOVA and regression analysis in various statistical packages, including R.  Highly recommended; check here first.

[An Introduction to Statistical Learning with Applications in R](http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~gareth/ISL/): book, available online, by Gareth James, Daniela Witten, Trevor Hastie and Robert Tibshirani

[The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction](https://web.stanford.edu/~hastie/ElemStatLearn/): book, available online, by Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, Jerome Friedman

[Deep Learning with R](https://www.manning.com/books/deep-learning-with-r): book, by François Chollet with J. J. Allaire 

[Cookbook for R, Statistical Analysis section](http://www.cookbook-r.com/Statistical_analysis/) provides examples of many basic statistical methods.

[A Little Book of R for Bioinformatics](https://a-little-book-of-r-for-bioinformatics.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) covers basic analysis topics in the field.


## Matrices and Vectorization

[Linear Algebra in R](https://www.math.uh.edu/~jmorgan/Math6397/day13/LinearAlgebraR-Handout.pdf) by Søren Højsgaard

Understanding Vectorization in R: [Vectorization in R: Why?](http://www.noamross.net/blog/2014/4/16/vectorization-in-r--why.html) by Noam Ross or 
[Let's talk about vectorization](http://alyssafrazee.com/2014/01/29/vectorization.html) by Alyssa Frazee



## Writing Better R Code


[Writing Good R Code and Writing Well](https://rviews.rstudio.com/2016/12/02/writing-good-r-code-and-writing-well/) by Joseph Rickert points to lots of other good resources

[Writing Better R Code](https://www.bioconductor.org/help/course-materials/2013/CSAMA2013/friday/afternoon/R-programming.pdf) by Laurent Gatto

[Tidyverse Style Guide](http://style.tidyverse.org/): style guide used by authors of some of R's most popular packages

[Efficient R Programming](https://csgillespie.github.io/efficientR/) by Colin Gillespie and Robin Lovelace

Commit message:

Added summer coming soon text

README.md, after:

# R Workshops

This repository is a clearing house for resources for individual R workshops from [Research Computing Services](http://www.it.northwestern.edu/research/). 

## *Info and links for Summer 2023 R Workshops are coming soon!*

# Workshops

## Current Workshops

[R Fundamentals Series](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-intro-series): the most recently taught materials

[`ggplot2`](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-ggplot2-april2020)

[Tidyverse](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-tidyverse)

[Databases](https://github.com/nuitrcs/databases_workshop/tree/master/r): Information on how to connect to databases from R is part of the databases workshop materials, which also covers the basics of SQL.  The example code there may be a useful reference, but you'll need a database connection to run it.  See that repository for more details.  

[R Shiny](https://github.com/nuitrcs/rshiny) 

[R Markdown](https://github.com/nuitrcs/rmarkdown_workshop): this one is a little older than the others, but the material should still be relevant

[Webscraping with rvest](https://github.com/turnerdan/rvest_tutorial)

[Statistical Models](https://github.com/aarcher07/stats_models)

## Previous Introductory Workshops

[Intro to R](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-intro-summer2019) (in-person workshop)

[Intro to R Virtual Bootcamp](https://github.com/nuitrcs/r-online-2020)



# Software

For workshops, it's best to [install R and RStudio](https://sites.northwestern.edu/researchcomputing/resources/r-and-rstudio/) on your own laptop (both are free).  If you can't install these programs or run into issues installing packages, [RStudio Cloud ](https://sites.northwestern.edu/researchcomputing/resources/r-and-rstudio/#option-2-rstudio-cloud)is a good option.


# Handouts

[RStudio Cheat Sheets](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/cheatsheets/) are short pdfs that summarize key R functions on specific topics. Many people print them out for reference while working in R.  The `ggplot` cheat sheet, in particular, in indispensable.  

[R Reference Card](https://cran.r-project.org/doc/contrib/Baggott-refcard-v2.pdf): lists many commonly used functions


# Learning More

**See our guide to free, [online resources for learning R](https://sites.northwestern.edu/researchcomputing/2020/03/20/online-learning-resources-r/) on the Research Computing Services blog for suggestions of resources to get started or get better with R.**

Resources for specific topics and R are below.

## Git and R

[Happy Git with R](http://happygitwithr.com/): another resource from UBC Stat 545 and Jenny Bryan's team

[Github Quickstart for Scientists](https://rawgit.com/nazrug/Quickstart/master/GithubQuickstart.html): aims just at teaching the workflow that many scientists use

## R for Users of Other Statistical Programs

If you're coming to R from Stata, SPSS, SAS, Matlab, or Python, the following resources might be useful to you. Some of them may be a little outdated, but each contains some tables of equivalent commands across programs that might help you get familiar with R more quickly.

[R/Stata Comparison](http://www.princeton.edu/~otorres/RStata.pdf) from Princeton's Data & Statistical Services

[R for SAS and SPSS Users](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B4mP5kf41BrmYkxkdmdRdWFibDA/view) is an early, condensed version of a book by the same name, from Bob Muenchen of <a href="https://www.r4stats.com">r4stats.com</a>

[The Tidynomicon: R for Python Programmers](https://gvwilson.github.io/tidynomicon/) by Greg Wilson; may be helpful for those coming to R from other C-derived programming languages as well.

[Matlab/R Reference](http://www.math.umaine.edu/~hiebeler/comp/matlabR.pdf): from David Hiebeler of the University of Maine.

[Matlab/NumPy (Python)/R Commands Chart](http://mathesaurus.sourceforge.net/matlab-python-xref.pdf): from Vidar Bronken Gundersen; this one is about 10 years old, but it mostly covers basic commands, which haven't changed

[haven Package](http://haven.tidyverse.org/): for importing Stata, SAS, and SPSS data into R.


## Statistics and Machine Learning

[UCLA's Statistics Consulting Group](http://www.ats.ucla.edu/stat/dae/) has a great set of tutorials showing how to conduct many types of ANOVA and regression analysis in various statistical packages, including R.  Highly recommended; check here first.

[An Introduction to Statistical Learning with Applications in R](http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~gareth/ISL/): book, available online, by Gareth James, Daniela Witten, Trevor Hastie and Robert Tibshirani

[The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction](https://web.stanford.edu/~hastie/ElemStatLearn/): book, available online, by Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, Jerome Friedman

[Deep Learning with R](https://www.manning.com/books/deep-learning-with-r): book, by François Chollet with J. J. Allaire 

[Cookbook for R, Statistical Analysis section](http://www.cookbook-r.com/Statistical_analysis/) provides examples of many basic statistical methods.

[A Little Book of R for Bioinformatics](https://a-little-book-of-r-for-bioinformatics.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) covers basic analysis topics in the field.


## Matrices and Vectorization

[Linear Algebra in R](https://www.math.uh.edu/~jmorgan/Math6397/day13/LinearAlgebraR-Handout.pdf) by Søren Højsgaard

Understanding Vectorization in R: [Vectorization in R: Why?](http://www.noamross.net/blog/2014/4/16/vectorization-in-r--why.html) by Noam Ross or 
[Let's talk about vectorization](http://alyssafrazee.com/2014/01/29/vectorization.html) by Alyssa Frazee



## Writing Better R Code


[Writing Good R Code and Writing Well](https://rviews.rstudio.com/2016/12/02/writing-good-r-code-and-writing-well/) by Joseph Rickert points to lots of other good resources

[Writing Better R Code](https://www.bioconductor.org/help/course-materials/2013/CSAMA2013/friday/afternoon/R-programming.pdf) by Laurent Gatto

[Tidyverse Style Guide](http://style.tidyverse.org/): style guide used by authors of some of R's most popular packages

[Efficient R Programming](https://csgillespie.github.io/efficientR/) by Colin Gillespie and Robin Lovelace
